in this time I'm going to talk about
conditioned generation in the in the
materials it was called encoder/decoder
models you can also call it conditioned
generation and basically so what we
talked about before were language models
and language models are basically models
that allow us to calculate a probability
distribution language models are
generative models of text so if we have
if we have a sentence if we have a
sentence s we can sample this from our
distribution over over language and we
can use this to generate something like
something like this so this was an
example of a recurrent neural network
lsdm language model trained on all the
Harry Potter books and then they tried
to have it generate a new Harry Potter
book so the Malfoy's said Hermione Harry
was watching him he looked like Madame
Maxime when she strode up the wrong
stair taste of this to himself so the
funny thing is this actually made the
exact mistake that I said Alice TM
should be able to fix so the subject is
she but the but it's saying himself here
so interestingly even LS gems we're not
even able to fix this and then you have
a bunch of other kind of crazy stuff
that's generated so text generation is
interesting and I think a lot of people
are very interested in it but it's kind
of an ill-defined problem in a way
because what do we actually want to
generate it's not entirely clear we
might want to generate it a Harry Potter
book but what does a Harry Potter book
look like we have seven examples but we
don't seven but we have several examples
but we don't we don't necessarily know
what a new good Harry Potter book would
look like so a slightly better defined
problem is conditioned language models
where we have some sort of specification
about what we should be generating so
not just generate text but generate it
according to some specification so we
have input X and output Y so then
X could be structured data for example
output Y could be a natural language
description input X could be English
output could be Japanese a document a
short description of the document in
utterance of response in image a text
describing the image or a speech speech
in the transcript and all of these
correspond I picked all these because
they correspond to a common task in NLP
so does anybody know what these tasks
are called the first ones actually may
be more difficult than anybody so this
is this is frequently called natural
language generation in fact this is what
what was considered natural language
generation before before we had models
so structured data I'll give some
examples of this later but your weather
reports for example are often generated
from structured data that tells you how
warm it is how the clouds are coming in
etc there's lots of other examples of
this um this one here is translation
next one summarization next one dialogue
basically yeah I'd call it dialogue
response generation but you can also
call it dialogue itself if you want oh
sorry image captioning and then finally
speech so there we go so you could see
that like a very large number of of NLP
tasks are basically taking in some sort
of something and generating some sort of
text on the output side and so how do we
model this this is kind of review but
I'll be happy to take any questions that
people had when they were reading the
materials so the way we calculate a
probability of a sentence normally and a
language model is we have something that
looks like this and this is the next
word this is the context we calculate
the probability of the next word over
the context and take the product of all
of these and the only difference in a
conditional language model is now we're
predicting
which is our output and we add this
additional context which is basically
our input our input specification of
what we want to be what we want to be
generating so it's this is all quite
simple and normally you know our go-to
language model is basically an lsdm
language model where we we take in the
previous state the input calculate the
next state even use it to predict and a
conditional language model or
specifically one type of conditional
language model the encoder/decoder model
that we talked about in the materials
was was basically this thing here so we
have an LS TM that reads in the input in
maybe Japanese an input sequence in
Japanese and we use this to calculate a
representation and then we use this to
translate or generate so yeah this is
our general paradigm I guess and were
there any questions about this up to
here okay yes so we also call this the
encoder and this the decoder the reason
why this is called the encoder and the
decoder is basically we're encoding this
into a vector representation that's not
the same as the text and then were
basically using the decoder to to
generate something from this vector
representation the cryptography thing
that I that I put on the extra credit
quiz actually part of the reason why I
decided to add this is one of the
options is because this terminology
originally comes from cryptography where
you would be encoding something into a
some other string and then decoding it
decoding it to generate the original
string so in this case instead of you
know generating a string of
numbers or something like a string of
like different words or something like
that here we're generating a single
vector and then decoding from that
vector to try to get the same thing or
try to get something else okay so um so
that was all review of the reading
materials now I'm going to talk about a
detail that I don't believe I included
there when you're implementing these
models one thing you need to think about
is how do we pass the information from
the encoder to the decoder so one common
way to do this is if we have an encoder
the encoder can allow us to calculate a
hidden state and basically what we do is
we take the hidden state of the encoder
and then we initialize the decoder with
this hidden state and then generate
generate things from it so this is a
very common way that was kind of what
was in my my diagram before there's also
other ways to do this so another way to
do this is we can transform a DES
transform between so for example let's
say our encoder and our decoder are of
different dimensionality we can you know
run this through a multi-layer
perceptron or something like that and
calculate the hidden state and put it
into the decoder then then one other way
is we take the what we calculated from
the encoder and we input it to every
time step of the decoder so basically
this looks something like this
so we have the encoder we calculate this
and then every time we generate
something from the decoder we just re
input the representation we got from the
encoder so these are common ways of
doing things um in general most models
that you use nowadays use some
combination of the second one and the
third one and then the third one when
they do the third one they use something
called attention which we'll talk about
next time so usually you both initialize
maybe using a transform of some sort and
you can
that are the input at every time step
okay so um next I will talk about ways
we do generation this is kind of review
of the materials but I'm going to talk a
little bit more in depth than was
explained there um are there any
questions about this first okay um so
next is methods of generation so the
generation problem basically we have two
different types of problems that we
would like to solve one is that we have
a model of pyx and how do we use it to
generate a sentence and there are
basically two methods one is sampling
where we try to generate a random
sentence according to the probability
distribution and the second one is Arg
max so we try to return generate the
sentence with the highest probability or
we might want to generate the K
sentences with the highest and the way
we generate sentences depends on this
the the common way of sampling is this
ancestral sampling where we randomly
generate words one by one so this is the
pseudo code for this we so basically
while we haven't reached the end of
sentence symbol we randomly generate a
word according to this distribution and
one very interesting thing about this is
this is an exact method for getting
things from the probability distribution
this is this was mentioned very briefly
in the materials but this is worth
emphasizing so there's no better way to
randomly generate samples than this
ancestral sampling approach its unbiased
and will give you exactly what what you
want from the distribution so that's
good um why would you want to do
sampling you can think of a number of
things like one example that I gave was
in the materials was dialogue
so let's say every time you want to you
want to give a response you want to give
a different response so the people don't
get bored with talking with you you can
randomly sample instead of giving the
highest probability one um another thing
let's say you're playing a game let's
say you're playing go or you know for a
word game because we're in an NLP class
if you're playing a game you won't
necessarily want to do the same thing
every time because if your opponent
realizes they could beat you with one
strategy they'll beat you the same way
every single time so you might want to
add a little bit of randomness into the
way you act or something like that um so
the next one is greedy search so greedy
search one by one you can pick the
single highest probability word so it
looks like this and the important
contrast to two random sampling is that
this is not exact we can't exactly find
the the one best we can if we restrict
our model and do something like a model
where we make it in assumption a Markov
assumption which is basically like only
the previous n words have in effect then
we can do exact search but basically if
we're doing it in an unrestricted
sequence to sequence model like the ones
we normally use this this cannot be done
exactly because there's an exponential
number of hypotheses you have to
consider um
this leads to real problems one of the
real problems it leads to is it likes to
generate easy words first so why does
this happen if you think about it if you
know your model if your if you know your
model will have to generate I let's see
I am a student in Pittsburgh or
let me try let me try to do the
difficult word first so I am a I work I
work as a occupational therapist in New
York so occupational therapist is a very
difficult word um so your model might be
bad at producing this or it might give
it a relatively low probability compared
to New York which it likes to produce a
lot and if so it will be biased
basically output new-new before
occupational therapist because it has
higher initial probability so you'll get
something like I work in New York as an
occupational therapist or something like
that so it will try it out but the
easier words first because they'll be
given a higher probability according to
the model another problem is it will
prefer multiple common words to one rare
word so the reason why is because if you
have to multiple if you have two common
words like New York versus Pittsburgh
[Applause]
the probability of each of these words
might be let's say at 0.25 in 0.25 um
the probability of New York itself will
be is 0.25 times 0.25 so it will be
lower than 0.1 but because the first
word is 0.25 greedy search will choose
this instead and it will it will
basically take new new not Pittsburgh
and then it will generate new york so
the overall probability is lower but but
it will basically make a suboptimal
decision so there's there's a couple of
reasons why this greedy search you know
could possibly make mistakes and we need
to think about better search strategies
um are there any questions about this
so there's also a there's an interesting
connection between sampling and greedy
search so basically greedy search can be
made equivalent to sampling if you
modify the distribution that you're
sampling from so basically if you take
your probability distribution and you
exponentiate it to negative infinity or
exponentiated by infinity and then then
normalize and sample from this
distribution it will become equivalent
to greedy search because the highest
probability word will get will get all
of the probability and will get a
probability of one so this is not very
interesting in itself but the kind of
interesting thing here is if we replace
this infinity by something like lambda
by a tunable parameter we can sample by
things that gradually approach greedy
search so you can actually kind of
interpolate between these these two
concepts so the I wanted to point out
the connection there so you know that
you can sample yeah um it's what the
model thinks have a higher probability
so it will usually be more frequent
words but it might be words that the
model is more certain about another
example would be if it's not sure about
the conjugation of a verb it might have
three possibilities for the conjugation
of a verb and it will split its
probability mass between all of them and
then it also has a noun
where you don't have multiple
conjugations than it might generate the
noun first so it's any any place where
it's not quite certain about what it
should be doing there okay so one way to
one way to fix these problems is instead
of picking one high probability word we
maintain several paths using beam search
I
be talking about this in too much detail
here because we'll be talking about
search and detail later in the class but
basically the idea is instead of picking
the one best you pick two best and then
you expand things along these two best
paths so this is if you're running into
search problems you can you can take a
closer look at materials on this but
we'll explain it more later with code
examples consider okay so we have a two
simple examples of the of the code for
for the encoder decoder so I will turn
this over to Dan who will explain about
them so he chooses
Oh
is that big enough for what you see or
should I make a bigger bigger okay
it's over it's over here yeah okay so
the beginning of this is the same as the
sentence retrieval tasks we did last
time we used reading off the data
this time we're reading in the test area
as well make your dictionaries or so
this is pretty much all the same um I
guess one difference here is well I
guess this is pretty much all is in um
however you need a maximum sentence size
because when you're doing Deb iterations
early in training oftentimes it won't
generate a named sentence tag it's a
little basically generate forever on
death sentences and telephones to any
student sentence tag at some point so
instead you want to specify max sentence
size and generate up to that point if it
doesn't end the sentence
you have your input sentence which is
split into a source and a target and you
have a Alice TN which you basically add
the looked up word for each word in the
sentence to encode the input the source
sentence and that gives you this
encoding um once you have the encoding
you can get the output from that but you
need to shift over the hidden states
from the encoder to the decoder so
there's a bunch of different ways of
doing this I just did a very simple dumb
way where you initialize the hellos TM
and then you set the internal state the
state to be the output from the previous
day and then the 10h output with a
previous date so this isn't a
particularly clever way of doing it
there's a lot of better ways of doing it
but this kind of works then after that
you start decoding the target sentence
and then in training you know each word
that you need to decode so you simply
add each of these as the previous ones
as input you do picnic locks off max for
the correct answer at this time to get
your loss you sum up those losses
yeah that's training that's not very
complex any questions
okay so for Generation II you basically
do the same thing up until you start
decoding then once you start decoding
you're going to go from decode either
until you hit the max engine size or
until you produce an endo sentence tag
then instead of doing picnic locks off
max of the correct word you take the
softmax over the entire vocabulary and
in this case it's pretty decoding so you
simply choose the maximum score and you
pick that as your next word then you add
it to the back into Alice TM and keep
going why don't you do a brief a brief
overview of batching maybe maybe just
the things that change okay so this
isn't particularly fast and helps a lot
to batch it
the tricky part about batching a
recurrent neural network algorithms like
this is you can have sentences of
variable length the size of a different
number of operations there are two
things we do or up to get around this
first go for
[Music]
before we start training we swore to the
training sentence by a length and then
the source side by a length and then um
we batch four sentences by the length of
the sentence so this gives us batches
where the source instances all the same
size so that's really easy to batch the
next problem is the target sentences can
be a variable length that correspond to
those four sentences so to do that we to
pad each sentence to be the maximum
length of the target sentence in the
batch but then after you've done padding
the sentences do you have a bunch of
extraneous and sentence tags at the end
of the sentence and you don't want to
update the model for that so you create
a mask that's a one if it's not a padded
object and a zero if it is a padded
object then once you generate the loss
you multiply the lost button mask so
this makes the loss of zero for every
element that was added in as padding so
that will no longer affect your updates
which means that your padding does not
actually affect training other small
diet things to note when you are doing
lookup for batch there's a book of batch
where you pass in the book of parameters
and then a vector of the words to look
up and that will look them up all at
once there's also a picnic lunch
automatic match where you passing the
expression and a vector of indices you
want to pick out from the softmax and it
will do that as a batch operation pretty
much everything else happens a lot
questions
so um we've also in the directory we've
also included a scripts - we've also
included a script to calculate a blue
score which I'm going to talk about in a
little bit and this will allow you to
evaluate how well your your model is
doing it producing at producing output
so let me go back to the slides
okay so the next thing I'm going to talk
about is model on tumbling so this was
covered very very briefly in the
materials but I'm going to cover it in
much more detail here the one thing that
you should know or so what on tumbling
does first is it combines predictions
from multiple models so if we have two
models like model number one on the left
and model number two on the right and we
basically run them completely
independently and then combine their
predictions together in some way so why
do we do this
um the basic idea behind this is that
different models make uncorrelated
errors they make errors that do not
correlate with each other perfectly
and in general models tend to be more
uncertain when they are about to make an
error than they tend to be when they are
getting it correct
so the idea is basically the the model
that the model that is more certain you
can trust it and you'll be correct more
often than that will that will decrease
your errors more often than it increases
your ears and this allows you to smooth
over the idiosyncrasies of the model um
these are all kind of high-level
explanations on a more low level on
sampling is one of the things that will
always increase your accuracy and it
always increases your accuracy even if
your model is already good really good
in the first place so this is the kind
of final go-to thing that people use
when they really want to be like the
best number that people have reported on
the other hand it's not really fair to
compare ensemble models and non ensemble
models so it's often common to basically
say we have the best single model
accuracy in comparison to somebody who
went through and trained ten models and
then ensemble them all together to get
that accuracy so so that's a good thing
to know when you're recording exercise
so there's there's different ways to
combine together models in the most
common way we do it is by taking the
probability vectors from the
bottles in combining them together in
some way every time we make a decision
so an example of how we would do that
for a conditional language model or
encoder/decoder model is that basically
we would have these m of models Big M
models each model makes its own
prediction or so yeah actually I have
this so this is the probability
according to model M um and then here
this is the probability of using model M
at this particular point so the idea is
each model makes its prediction and you
also make a prediction about whether
that model is likely to be correct or
not
essentially in neural models it's very
common to set this term to the uniform
distribution 1 divided by large M so in
other words this is completely context
independent and we always mix together
the models with the same probability um
one time I thought maybe it would be a
good idea to not do this so I
specifically tuned the yellow thing over
there to give higher weight to certain
models and lower weight to other models
and the tuning process gave me something
that was incredibly close to 1 / M
so I had four models and it gave me a
zero point two five zero point two four
nine nine zero point two five zero one
or something like that so after that
I've just been using 1 divided by M and
it seems to work for me but there might
be other cases where you have very
different models where it be a good idea
to tune this parameter more carefully
we're making context sensitive or
something like that
the another alternative is very very
similar but it's slightly different it's
called wog linear interpolation and the
idea is that we take a weighted
combination of the log probabilities for
each model or also called the logits
of each model so this is the
interpolation coefficient for model M
this is the log probability of model M
and then we combine them together in
this way so this looks very very similar
to what I just showed you before except
the right side is a log probability and
the left side is now not a probability
it's just an interpolation
coefficient which means they don't need
to add up to one here the other thing is
now we're putting a softmax outside here
and the reason why we need to put a
softmax is because it's not necessarily
the case that that these will be well
formed log probabilities set some to one
so we need to renormalize and ensure
that these add up to one the
interpolation coefficient here often is
also is also often set to the uniform
distribution and if that's the case and
we just add them together and and take
the average basically so that raises a
question linear or log linear models so
when you want to decide which one of
these to use you can think of it in in
logic operations so a linear
interpolation of bottles it's like a
logical or what I mean by this is the
interpolated model will generally give
high probability to any of the choices
where any of the models think it's a
good idea this is good to use with
models that capture different traits or
make very or might be good be very good
in different situations so one example
of this is let's say you have a very
high precision model that can make that
can make predictions about words or
let's say you had a model that was based
on a dictionary or something like that
that made good predictions when whatever
it found a word in a dictionary but it
was horrible whenever it was trying to
handle a word that wasn't included in
the dictionary so this model and then
you have another model that basically is
your normal neural model that makes
pretty good predictions all the time but
it's not quite as good the dictionary
model when you had something in the
dictionary so if this is the case the
dictionary model might assign zero
probability to the correct words at some
time
so if in this case you would definitely
have to use kind of this linear
interpolation method and then in
contrast the log linear model is like
it's like a logical end so basically
this is saying the interpolated model
likes choices where all of the models
agree so if all of the models say this
is pretty good you'll get a good score
for that choice and you want to use this
when you want to restrict possible
answers so you don't want any answers
where any of the models thinks that's a
really bad idea so that's kind of the
the difference between between these two
and you can choose which one to use
according to this so so the question is
what if you had a linear non linear
interpolation layer on top of the
outputs I think you definitely could do
that and the you would have to train
that separately that has the advantage
of possibly doing a better job than this
it has the disadvantage of having to
train it separately and using
appropriate data to Train it like you
might not want to use the data that you
trained the original models on you might
need to use some held-out data um I I
had a paper that we did where we
basically learned we learned these
interpolation coefficients dynamically
between Engram and like regular Engram
and neural models and that works well
but I I myself have not done anything
where or and have not looked carefully
at any papers that that do that sort of
non linear interpolation but I wouldn't
be very surprised if they did if they
did exist
does anyone know something like that
okay well maybe it's a good idea for
something to try um okay so now I'm
going to talk about some other ensemble
external so parameter averaging is a
ensemble accompli it's a little bit
different the one of the problems with
on sampling means that we have to use M
large M models at test time and using
large M models is obviously slow and
uses lots of memory it will take you
know large M times the amount of time
and then you know production settings in
companies you base this is a big barrier
to actually using the model um
parameter averaging is a cheap way to
get some of the good effects of on
something so as I mentioned ensemble
includes over the idiosyncrasies of the
model it smooths over the kind of
strange things that the model does and
parameter averaging is another way to do
it so basically what we do is at near
the end of training we write out models
several times so we we train for an
epoch then we write out a model we train
for another Epoque then write out a
model then we train again write out a
model then we average the parameters of
all of those models and this has the
effect of you know if any of those
particular models had something strange
included in them that kind of smooths
over that a little bit it tends to
increase accuracy the the good thing
about this is it's cheap in in the
previous case I mean in the pair of them
yes they have to they have to have
exactly the same parameters in the
previous case of ensemble aim that was
not the case they could be completely
different
um the average is better than the
optimal one for the same reason ensemble
intense story better than the best one
and it's just because each individual
model has kind of strange points like
one intuitive explanation for why each
model has strange points is because
we're doing online training and online
training tends to like the data that had
seen more recently like we're doing
stochastic gradient descent training and
stochastic gradient descent likes the
data that it's seen more recently we're
shuffling our training set every time so
every epoch the data that each model has
seen most recently is different so that
will tend to prevent this like tendency
to like the more recent data by
basically having each of the models
having seen different data or recently
so there's a number of other like
explanations that you've come up with
but that's maybe the most most direct
yeah so another another way of doing
this is ensemble distillation so the
idea the problem with parameter
averaging is it only works for models
within the same run so basically let's
say we train a big neural model with
random initialization every time um each
of these models will have hidden states
where maybe in the first model the first
hidden state is like have I seen a verb
in the sentence yet the second hidden
state is is the next word probably going
to be an animal or something like that
and all of these states have a semantics
associated with them basically like I
showed in the previous slide you could
visualize the states and some of them
had meaning but the problem is if you do
another completely independent run where
we have model one in model two the
semantics for these hidden states will
be completely different right they'll be
randomly you know they could be randomly
permuted and then if you average the
parameters you just get a big mess you
get a model that doesn't do anything
anything reasonable but we would still
like to have the advantage of parameter
averaging which is that we don't have to
actually run em models at test
so ensemble distillation or knowledge
distillation basically trains a model to
copy the predictions of the ensemble and
what it tries to do is it tries to match
the description sorry
match the distribution sorry that's a
typo match the distribution over the
predicted words and the reason why we
would want to do this is basically we
want the model to kind of get the same
things correct and make the same
mistakes to see ensemble and this allows
for more information when we're or tabac
propagates a more informative
distribution than the one hot
distribution so basically what we do is
we take all the predictions of model one
we take the predictions of model two and
these predictions have the same
semantics right because we're making
predictions over the same items so if
it's a language model we're making
predictions over words and the
vocabulary must be the same for both of
these and we then maybe take the average
of these 1/2 and then we use this is our
target during training this is the
general idea of ensemble distillation
this this paper here explains the idea
of ensemble distillation very well that
it proceeds to do something completely
different so what they're actually doing
in the paper is a little bit different
but the explanation is good so I think
it's a good one to take a look at the
original ensemble distillation paper is
a little bit opaque like it's kind of
hard to understand the explanation so I
think this is a better one to reference
in the this in general tends to increase
accuracy notably even if we use a much
smaller model after this distillation
process and then the final one is
stacking so the final method for
ensemble yeah this is also useful if you
have two very very different models but
basically the idea is yeah if we have
two different models where the
prediction of output is done in a very
DIF
way we can't do parameter averaging
distillation might also not be a good
idea because the model structures are so
different so yeah we might have a word
by word translation model on the
character by character translation model
so what stacking does is it uses the
output of one system and calculating the
features for another so you can
basically take that the predictions of
one model or maybe it's a part of speech
tagger or something like that take the
predictions for part of speech and then
use those predictions as features to the
input model and then train the model to
use these appropriate um are there any
questions about this it depends on how
you define covariance this would reduce
the covariance between the labels of the
different models because one is probably
one is using the predictions of the
other I don't know if that's the main
reason why the main reason why is
because if you have a first very
different model and then you can use its
inputs basically the the next model will
have to predict only when the first
model was wrong so it will learn kind of
to correct the predictions of the first
model and that's an easier task that's
usually an easier task than learning how
to predict in the first place I guess
that's more the more the intuition
behind stick okay
okay so um this might sorry this is
actually something I I wrote very late
at night last night and I realize that
they're much easier much easier
explanation so I'll give you one of the
much easier explanations which is
basically let's say we have a part of
speech and ER that was based on a strong
feature based CRF model or something
like that and this strong feature based
CRF model predicts either maybe predicts
noun verb determiner now we might take
an embedding from this and input this
into our neural model at every time step
and then our neural model could use the
fact that the CRF based model predicted
this this tag and use it to basically
improve its predictions using a
character based model for a word based
or using a word based model for a
character based model maybe maybe you
could input both on one example that I
was thinking of was an example where
they take a phrase based model for
translation and then take the input of
the phrase based model and the source
sentence and then generate a translation
using a neural model but um probably the
IE like something like tagging is a much
easier to understand explanation but it
actually was stacking you can get pretty
creative as long as you have two models
how you incorporate them as features is
um okay so how do we evaluate um this I
think a lot of people a lot of people
may have heard of it but I should go
over it briefly which is basically um if
we want to evaluate when we're
generating something um we you generally
use a parallel test set and then given
this parallel test set we use a system
to generate trans
license or outputs at least and compare
these with a reference the kind of gold
standard for doing this in most
generation tasks is human evaluation so
you can ask a human is this translation
adequate does it convey the meaning
properly is it fluent is it better than
the other translations and this is often
the final goal of what we will want to
do because we want trans translations or
generation results that humans like but
it's slow it takes time for people to do
this it's it costs money and it's very
often inconsistent if you use something
like Mechanical Turk or and you aren't
very careful with your quality control
so other methods to do this include blue
score which I think a lot of people have
heard of blue score basically what you
do is you compare a human generated
reference or multiple human generated
references and you count the number of
engrams that overlap and then output
then output a score and this has the
advantage of being easy to use it's good
for measuring system improvement but the
problem is it often doesn't match with
human evaluation it's also bad for
comparing very different systems so this
is something that's particularly
important to know when you see somebody
came up with some new radically
different system and then said it got
much better blue scores so one example
of this is blue tends to like very
fluent sentences it tends to give very
high scores when you generate sentences
that are highly fluent and knurl machine
translation systems are very good at
doing this generally so if you compare a
phrase based system with a neural system
and see that the blue score is higher
for the neural system often this will
mean that or the blue score is the same
mean that the neural system is more
fluent but it's less adequate it's less
likely to get the the meaning right so
if you compare two neural
systems with largely the same
architecture blue is probably pretty
good at detecting which one is better
but if you're comparing two things that
are very different it can fool you
sometimes um another one that is very
widely used nowadays it's kind of the de
facto standard for image captioning and
it's also widely used in translation and
stuff this meteor um it's like blue in
overall principle but it has many other
tricks like considering paraphrases
reordering function word versus content
words etc I mean it's generally
significantly better than blue
especially for languages where we have
lots of resources like English um
the cons are that it requires extra
resources for new languages and it's a
bit more complicated another Pro that I
didn't write on the slide it was made at
CMU so hey there's a Pro alum movie who
who was one of the inventors is now he's
at Amazon but he comes here occasionally
um finally um one thing that I don't
want to entirely discount is evaluating
your models based on perplexity
so perplexity we mentioned before in
language models but I think it's
actually a reasonable it's a reasonable
choice for evaluating for example
language generation models um the
advantage of it is that it naturally
solves the problem of having
inconsistency and references so um sorry
actually I intended to write about the
multiple reference problem but I
realized I forgot it in my slides but
basically the problem is when you
generate a translation for a particular
sentence there's lots of correct
translations when you generate a
response for a particular dialogue
utterance there's many many more correct
correct responses
and things like blue and meteor they
have trouble ensuring that you're not
just looking at the surface differences
between these multiple valid response
valid answers perplexity has doesn't
have that problem because it's basically
giving a probability to all of the
possible responses so even if many are
valid if it's giving a good probability
to all of the valid responses you'll get
a good perplexity and if it's missing
some of the valid responses you'll get a
worse perplexity so that way it's good
the only the main disadvantage of it is
it doesn't consider decoding or actually
generating outputs so if for some reason
you have a big problem in your decoding
process your output generation process
then it won't consider this but for
example one thing that I have been
thinking it but not empirically
validated is this might be good for a
language language generation or or
dialogue response generation things
where we have lots of uncertainty in it
so we actually probably shouldn't
discount this is a evaluation measuring
somebody who's working on those tasks
feel free to feel free to try it out and
prove me right or wrong I'd be I'd be
happy to know the answer but I think
it's a reasonable okay so any questions
about evaluation okay so I will I'll
move to the final part this is going to
be a very brief example of some things
that people have conditioned on when
creating conditional language models one
one way one thing that people condition
on is structured data so as I mentioned
at the very beginning this is when you
said natural language generation up
until about two years ago this is what
most people meant they meant you had
some sort of structured data source and
you tried to generate something from it
so like for example this is a dialogue
act specification so you have a dialogue
system that says I want to inform a user
of a restaurant that has a particular
price range and it has a specific type
of food and it has internet and I want
you to turn this into real English or
something like this
you know this and then so you take this
kind of structured representation and
you and you generate something
other examples are generating weather
reports so you have input of what the
weather is and you output a report in
text stock market reports so you have
you have an example of how the stock
market has fluctuated and which stocks
are more are increasing which stocks are
decreasing and you generate something
from that I also found an interesting
example that basically took all the
census data in from the US and generated
textual descriptions of it and the
textual descriptions are actually very
very good they're all based on templates
so you know you need to make a template
but but you can generate descriptions
and create a whole website that people
actually want to go to just by doing
this natural language generation so
there's there's lots of ways you can do
this from structured data um this is
another one this is mine and into things
so I this is a shameless plug but
another thing that you can do is if you
have tags and in input you might want to
generate from an input and labels so
there's a number of other examples like
this so for example you want to generate
a description of a you want to generate
a translation but you want the
translation to sound like it was
translated by a man or a woman or you
want it to be a polite translation or an
employed translation so there's lots of
examples of this I have been calling it
labeled sequence transduction but
there's things like this there's also
examples of labelled sequence generation
where you're only conditioning of the
tags and there's there's things like
generating a review where the review on
is positive about certain aspects of
something or negative about certain
aspects of other things so that's
another example of thinking commissioner
another one this is maybe one of the
ones that capture
a lot of people's imagination about this
so in 2015 there were about four
different papers that came out
simultaneously saying that we can
describe images with natural language so
here you take in an image and you
generate an explanation that looks a
little bit like this can now do videos
is a description of videos as well I
think this is really exciting in a way
because you know if you think about it
now you can take a camera and ask to
explain a scene to for example somebody
who is blind or something like that and
it would be able to do this with some
degree of accuracy there's other there's
other kind of creative examples I've
also cited because this is an NLP in MLP
class and I think by looking at other
people's creative examples you might be
able to come up with some of your own so
one is you have a name of a recipe and
ingredients and then you want to
generate the actual directions for for
creating that recipe another example is
we have a description of a TED talk so
we have the name of the person who the
name of the person who's doing it the
person's bio and the summary of the
content we condition on that and then we
want to generate the actual TED talk
itself and you know there's there's lots
of other examples anything where we take
something and we generate text that we
can condition on so um that's the extent
of what I have today I'm happy to take
any questions
yeah um yes it does there's a few
examples of that ie that's a good
question that's something I would have
if I had thought about it I would have
included it on these slides so that's a
very very good point maybe I'll include
it something later but basically the
idea is you have the multiple if you're
not aware of it you have multiple
resolutions of generation where you
might have one kind of very coarse
resolution over sentences and then you
have a finer finer resolution thing
where you where you generates words in
the sentence until you get to the end of
the sentence and then maybe feedback
here etc so um this is definitely a
thing that people do the best example I
can come up with at the moment is
character based neural machine
translation which is one that takes
words and then generates generates the
words character by character but there's
lots of other examples of this maybe we
can share some on Piazza or something
happy place
on automatically generating academic
papers from structured data so so you
want to take your experimental results
and generate one no but please tell me
if you do yeah no I think you know it's
it's fairly reasonable but if you think
about how much you worry about how to
write your paper um if you think about
how much you worry about how to write
your paper it might not be an easy
problem for an ALICE team to do
especially if he can't get she and
himself quit but you know I think there
one one interesting application that I
heard of before I don't remember where I
heard of it so I can't come up with a
reference is taking in a taking in an
academic paper and generating a
structure to abstract so structured
abstracts are things that we don't have
an NLP but they have in like in medical
or biological papers where it's like
method or question method results etc
and then they take the whole paper and
try to generate something like that I
think it's interesting it'd be cool if
it worked what's it oh of generating the
structured abstracts structured
abstracts I actually don't know the
title of the paper I can try to find it
okay so um you so the the question or
the comment was somebody tried to
generate a paper and get it accepted to
a conference I think that works as long
as your baseline for that conference is
very low if they generate a paper and
get it accepted to a real real
conference for example in our field I
would be very surprised
but there's also ethical concerns with
doing that right interestingly so that
this is actually a non non trivial or
it's an important point about natural
language generation also which is why I
say perplexity is a good measure for
assessing natural language generation
systems so it's very easy to generate
something that looks that looks like a
real paper right I can download a paper
from I can download a PDF from the ACL
anthology and generate a very good paper
by literally taking that PDF and
resubmitting it to a different
conference you know like if you're just
generating things that you've seen
already then it's super easy to generate
something good because it's already
there for you you can just copy it but
the difficult thing is generating
something that's both new and realistic
and the reason why perplexity is a good
measure for natural language generation
systems is then you can hold out a new
piece of data and see whether you give
it a reasonable score or not but if you
have a rule-based
natural language generation system for
example you can't do that so just
generating something good is a very game
Abul metric but measuring the perplexity
of something news is not if not it's a
little bit early but I'll finish up here
so thank you everybody